WHY DONATE BLOOD?
A blood donation is truly an altruistic gift that an individual can give to others in need. In only 45-60 minutes, an eligible individual can donate one unit of blood that can be separated into four individual components that could help save multiple lives.

From one unit of blood, red blood cells can be extracted and used to treat patients who lost blood due to trauma or those who are recovering from surgery. Plasma, the liquid part of blood, is typically administered to patients with requiring treatment to improve blood clotting. Platelets, a third component, clot the blood when cuts or other open wounds occur, and are often used in the treatment of patients with cancer or those undergoing organ transplants. Finally, cryoprecipitated anti-hemophilic factor (AHF) is also used for clotting factors.


1.What is the benefits of donating blood?
Ans.A healthier heart and vascular system
Regular blood donation is linked to lower blood pressure and a lower risk for heart attacks. “It definitely helps to reduce cardiovascular risk factors,” says DeSimone.

2.Why is blood donation important for saving lives?
Ans.Our blood is responsible for 7% of our body's weight. Red cells, platelets, plasma and cryoprecipitate are the four types of transferable products which are derived from the blood. Every pint of blood donated can save up to three lives.


3.What is the rarest blood type?
Ans.AB negative is the rarest of the eight main blood types - just 1% of our donors have it. Despite being rare, demand for AB negative blood is low and we don't struggle to find donors with AB negative blood.

What is age for blood donation?
The universally accepted criteria for donor selection are: Age between 18 and 65s years.

What not to do after blood donation?
Don't do any heavy lifting or vigorous exercise for the rest of the day. If the needle site starts to bleed, apply pressure and raise your arm straight up for 5-10 minutes or until bleeding stops.

Can I donate blood every month?
Men can donate safely once in every three months while women can donate every four months. Donor should be in the age group of 18 to 65 years. Donor should be in the age group of 18 to 65 years. The Donor Should not be less than 45 Kilograms.

Can I donate blood after lunch?
Eat. Eating regularly before donating will help to keep your blood sugar levels stable. This is important so that you don't feel lightheaded or dizzy after your donation. Having a snack before you donate can help maintain these blood sugar levels.

How much is pint of blood?
Whole blood donors give 500 milliliters, about one pint.

Which person Cannot donate blood?
You must be in good health at the time you donate. You cannot donate if you have a cold, flu, sore throat, cold sore, stomach bug or any other infection. If you have recently had a tattoo or body piercing you cannot donate for 6 months from the date of the procedure.

What is golden blood group?
One of the world's rarest blood types is Rh-null. Fewer than 50 people in the world have this blood type. It's so rare that it's sometimes called “golden blood.”

What is the oldest blood type?
Blood type A is the oldest, and existed even before the human race evolved from our ancestors.

